>> Speaker 1: And
reveal that actually some magic happened.
Some amazing, precise magic happened when
I,
>> Speaker 1: We already said
where I define my function determines.
What did it say?
Where you define your function determines
what variables your function have
access to when you call the function.
That's our overarching message.
Where you define determines.
But hold on.
[INAUDIBLE] was to find inside of outer.
But we said outer's gone.
But we're saying also, where you define
what determines what variables function of
assets when you call the function.
How can these two things be reconciled?
Okay, let's see.
When I define the increment counter,
when I was running out, so
we are right now inside the quarter outer,
we're inside the quarter outer and
the first thing we didn't saw
it was declare counter is 0.
Then increment counter is a function.
When I declare the increment
counter as a function,
I didn't just declare it was a function.
Behind the scenes,
JavaScript did something very special.
We're gonna learn how
it worked in a second.
But for now, what I'm gonna say?
Is when I define increment counter,
I said define increment counter,
determines what things
are gonna be available.
Where I define my function determines
what data will be available when I end up
calling that function,
wherever I call it, wherever I invoke it,
wherever I execute it.
Where I defined it determines what data,
when I call it, it will have access to.
So I defined an increment counter here,
I did something else.
I didn't just define it,
I didn't just store its description,
increment counter plus plus in memory,
I did something else.
I made a special bond to the immediate
total surround live local memory.
I said this function Gets a special
bond to all these surrounding data.
Gets a special bond to
all my surrounding data,
increment counter is not just a function.
It's a function plus a special
bond To little reference to
all my surrounding data, counter at zero,
increment count as a function.
It gets a reference to
the whole surrounding data.
When it gets to find.
Meaning when I return that function out,
do I just get the function?
Nuh-uh.
I get the function plus that special bond
to the surrounding data from
when that function was born.
And what is in that surrounding data?
That surrounding live store of data,
but not counted could be zero.
But literally Counter is 0.
There it is,
attached to my function definition.
I return out the function value.
Increment counter is a function with
a reference to the surrounding data hidden
on the back of the function, and
when I return my function out, well,
on the back of the function comes with it
It’s surrounding data from where it was
defined and there it is, and so that
function that gets now given a new label.
New label is my new function.
Just a function.
It's a function with a bond to
its surrounding data [SOUND] And
now, so we code my new function,
it's code said
counter plus plus,
there was no counter, in local,
everything will suggest the next
place will look at down
our call stack sought of we're
calling my new function,
In global, so we go out and
look in global for the counter.
>> Speaker 1: Where do you think
we actually go and look, Andrea,
before we go look in global?
>> Speaker 2: We look in-
>> Speaker 1: In the orange box.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: [LAUGH] So
I like to call this orange box a backpack.
Now, this is definitely not
the technical term For this orange box.
There are.
We're gonna give you a whole bunch of
sophisticated technical terms for them.
But note that in many ways
it's like a backpack.
That function got a little bond to
its surrounding live store of data on
its back.
And out came the function
stored in my new function, and
with it came its backpack of live
data from when it was defined.
Not a bad name for it.
Unfortunately, it's not the name,
unfortunately.
We're gonna see what the real name for
it is in a moment.
First let's just see
what actually happens.
Andrea, didn't find counter in local.
Where did I actually go look
before I looked in global?
Andrea, where do I actually go look?
>> Speaker 2: You data
that in the backpack?
>> Speaker 1: In the backpack,
thank you, Andrea for indulging me.
[LAUGH] green one.
In the backpack, say it proud and
loud and say it in your interviews and
look distress When they look at you and
say, mm-mm.
[LAUGH] All right, though,
what do we find, counter at 0?
What do we do with, Andrea?
What do we say we're gonna do with it?
>> Speaker 2: We're gonna increment it.
>> Speaker 1: Increment it.
This is the same thing.
Increment it to 1, ha.
Increment it to 1.
>> Speaker 1: Not in our local memory,
but in this live data store.
This backpack attached to
the function definition.
Okay, before we talk about how this is
possible, all the ins and outs of this.
We finish running my new function,
we hit a counter, it was zero.
We incremented to one.
What happens to this execution context?
Andrea?
>> Speaker 2: It gets garbage collected.
>> Speaker 1: No, the data does.
The execution context gets
Popped off the call stack.
It's gone and we go back to global,
where what's the next line we encounter,
Andrea?
Gonna call [INAUDIBLE] function again,
basically.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Speaker 1: Let's call it again.
My new function.
Let's call it again.
Everybody?
Actually, just Art.
I'm calling my new function.
Okay, then just.
Griffin.
Griffin, I'm calling my new function.
What do I create a new?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Speaker 1: Are people really good
together doing it really under
the pressure of the individual person?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: Execution content.
>> Speaker 1: Good job, man.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Push it to the call stack, right?
>> Speaker 3: Yep.
>> Speaker 1: Pass the call
to my new function.
So the call stack for
this level of communication may
seem pedantic, but I was telling Lindsay,
telling Bob,
I think I was telling Carol as well,
this is the stuff Of seasoned developers.
There is little explanation why
codesmith folk grads get senior jobs.
If there's one explanation,
it's Tentacle Communication.
So I've all ready seen a resounding
leveling up even today.
So even though it feels I go,
God, I know what context is.
That level of precision,
it makes a world of difference.
So here we go, and
what's the first line in side C?
>> Speaker 3: It's counter-plus-plus.
>> Speaker 1: Couner-plus-plus.
Now, where do I look for counter first?
>> Speaker 3: At first in local?
>> Speaker 1: Do I find it?
>> Speaker 3: No.
>> Speaker 1: No, just like that.
This byte gets it gone,
by the way, but yeah.
I've got a new empty local memory.
Where would I look next?
Where would my call stack
sort of simplicity?
Given I'm calling my new function in
global, one might think I'd look next in?
>> Speaker 3: Global.
>> Speaker 1: But
where do I actually look?
>> Speaker 3: You go into your backpack.
>> Speaker 1: Into my,
beautiful music to my ears.
>> Speaker 3: Dora explore it.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 1: Dora explorer,
I like that actually, she's nice.
Okay, and what do we find?
One, and what do we do to it?
>> Speaker 3: You add one to it.
>> Speaker 1: And we get two okay.
[INAUDIBLE] my bag pack is persistent.
It holds on to that data live.
Man we've answered that thing,
what if our functions have persistent
memory in between [INAUDIBLE]?
Anything are declared inside my new
function fills in the local memory but
[INAUDIBLE] function?
Start again, it's gonna have
to fit it in all there again.
There's no memory between
these function calls.
But hold on,
this backpack of data is attached to
the function definition, persists.
It sticks on the back of the function
definition, in between function calls.
Our function, myNewFunction,
is not just a function,
it's a function With a store
of data on its back.
This is for me the most beautiful
concept in all of JavaScript.
It is the most profound.
We're gonna see OOP tomorrow.
We're gonna see asynchronicity.
Asynchronicity.
Lists of rules.
OOP.
Lists of techniques.
Closure conceptually beautiful and
empowering approach in JavaScript.